So in the last lecture we've added this field. And we had this issue of annoying refreshing the whole iframe
thing.
Whenever we change a single character. So let's go back to the guide here. And we took a look at this
in the first lecture this diagram. And we saw that we have something called Transport and it could
be Refresh or Selective Refresh or postMessage.
So refresh is the default option which as you saw refreshes the whole iframe.
So let's see the other options. So let's start by the postMessage.
So let's go back to the code
and in the where we added setting let's add a new option called "transport"
and the variable be "postMessage".
And let's see now what will happen.
So let's refresh.
And we are talking and it's not refreshing.
But it's not changing here as well.
So the way postMessage works is by allowing communication between the settings panel and the iframe
here using a JavaScript technique called postMessage.
And this technique allows cross origin communication between two windows or a window and iframe.
You can read about more if you want. But you don't really have to. We'll learn how to use it.
For our case we just need to know JavaScript.
You don't need any other special skills for that.
So how this works is whenever we change something here it will fire an event in the iframe. And then
we can add an event listener to listen to this event and do something whenever this field is changed.
So to do that we need to write our JavaScript in a special file so we can't just edit in the this admin file.
It needs to be enqueued in a certain way. So lets add a new file in the js folder and let's call it "customize
customize-preview.js".
But now we'll have to modify the gulpfile in order to watch for this file.
So let's add another one and same paths just different file name. So "customize-preview". So whenever you change
something in the gulpfile you need to rerun the "npm start".
So let's rerun it.
And then let's see how to enqueue this file.
So let's go to enqueue-assets in the lib folder.
So the admin_enqueue_scripts won't work in our case. We need a new action. And this action is called "customize_preview
"customize_preview_init". And it takes a function of course so let's add a function that we will create in a
moment.
So "_themename_customize_preview_js"
So let's create this function.
And here we'll enqueue a script
normally like any other script.
So "wp_enqueue_script" and the handle "_themename-customize-preview".
And the source and this would be "get_template_directory_uri()" and then "/dist/assets/js
customize-preview.js". And we've an array of dependencies.
And this is important.
Here we need to add a dependency called "customize-preview".
And also we'll need "jquery"
and then the version.
And then "in_ footer" and let's set this to "true".
So inside this file now we can write our event handlers for the Customizer. So let's open this file.
And let's import jQuery. So WordPress adds a global JavaScript variable called wp.
So let's "console.log(wp)". And let's see what that looks like.
So let's inspect and refresh.
So this is it, coming from the customize-preview file.
And it contains a lot of JavaScript APIs that WordPress made available globally. So the one we need to
use is customize.
So let's use now this customize API.
So this will take the first argument is the setting ID which in our case is "_themename_
"_themename_site_info" and the callback function will get passed a value and the value will
represent this field.
So now we have this value and this is not the value of the of the text here.
This is a JavaScript object that represents this control here.
So we can run events on it, so.
So let's call ".bind".
So now we are listening to change events for this input. And in the callback function
we have an argument called "to". So let's now "console.log(to)".
And "to" is the value that the user typed.
So let's reload and let's inspect.
So as you can see whenever we change the value we have the updated value in the "to" variable.
So this is how you listen for changes.
First use the "customize" to get this value object.
And then this value object you can run events on it.
So now that we have this value we can now target some classes here. And using jQuery we can manipulate
its value.
So let's copy the class for the text-info.
And we have jQuery imported so, we can use jQuery to target this class and then change its HTML. And
just put the value.
So let's check now.
And as you can see it changes immediately.
So that's great.
But one drawback for this is that now if we type, let's add a B tag which is for bold and now it's added and it appears
here. But it won't really represent what this will look like after savings. So after saving we will
run through the sanitization functions and all that sort of stuff.
And if we refresh now the bold tag is removed.
So this one drawback of the postMessage technique that if you use it you will have to make sure that
any PHP logic that happens to this text here it will have to be duplicated in the JavaScript.
And this is not a good practice.
So this might work for a small text like this.
We can try to duplicate the sanitization but for a more complicated option this may become almost impossible.
So let's try and duplicate this in JavaScript.
So inside the js folder I'm gonna create a new folder and call it helpers.
And then inside this folder I'm gonna create a new file and call it strip-tags.js. And here I'm gonna paste
a function that I got from a Stack Overflow. And this function will actually strip all tags and like
the wp_kses() it takes an input and some allowed tags. So I'm exporting this function.
So let's now import it in the customize-preview file. So I'm gonna "import strip_tags from './helpers/strip-tags'".
And now I can run this function here.
So it takes the first argument the text and the second argument an A tag.
So as you may notice in the PHP function we had more options.
But you can't choose attributes and stuff like that. But here we are trying just to mimic the PHP function as much
as possible.
So this might be ok here but for some more complicated cases it would be a lot of work to duplicate
the PHP to JavaScript.
So let's just check it now.
And let's add a B tag and now as you can see it's removed directly using JavaScript.
So as I mentioned this might be fine for this kind of situation but for more complicated situations
we might need to see another solution.
That's what we will do in the next lecture.
But before that let's see something. Let's try, edit the site title here. And let's add some text. As you
can see it also refreshes the whole thing.
So I just want to point out that you can change these settings for already existing settings. So
let's go to customize and
$wp_customize class will have a function called get_setting()
So this setting is called blog name and you can tell by
inspecting and seeing these values.
I'm sure there's a better way to do it.
But anyways, so we now have the setting object for this setting.
And you can change some stuff in it. So we can change the "transport"
to "postMessage".
And now if we save
and change it, it won't refresh.
And that's because we need to add the JavaScript callback.
So let's add another one real quick here. So let's actually copy this one to save some time.
And change this to "blogname". And my class for the header text is called "c-site-header__
"c-site-header__blogname". And we don't need this strip any tags here.
And let's see now.
And now it's changing directly.
So this is fine but it's also a bit risky because you don't know what WordPress does before it outputs
the blog title here.
So you already know that these kind of functions maybe already running through PHP filters and stuff
like that.
So in the next lecture let's discover another way
that is a bit of a compromise between refreshing the whole iframe and using JavaScript's to duplicate
the logic.
So see you in the next lecture.